





Decomposition of a Heart

Tape 1. 29/09.
[You press “Play” and are immediately hit with an overwhelming static noise. A few seconds later it disappears in the background. Then, an unfamiliar voice of a woman appears, raspy and loud.]
Today I’ve met my new star.
“Action!” [Same voice, but from a distance, edited in from another source]
This shoot was one of the school’s assignments and so I only paid half-attention to it. The so-called actors swirled in erratic motion, their enthusiasm unmatched by their talent. I learned to reign over my perfectionism when it came to such tasks and so I let their mistakes slide. When you care about an ongoing project less than anyone else involved it makes you feel powerful. It makes you better than them, and I was.
I did not need all fifteen of them to make the film, but the volunteers kept coming and I kept saying yes. Of course we’ll find a role for you, don’t worry. You never know who’s dad turns out to be a big and mighty producer and I’m not blunt enough to ask for such things upfront. So don’t worry Kevin or Kyle or whatever your name is, you can have the role of a “floor swiper number 3”. Honestly, the idea of a small mom-and-pop coffee shop with three swipers, four cashiers and seven servers, stuck within a tiny set of a real abandoned cafe near our dormitory was almost good enough to qualify it as a Real Deal.
[Her voice is deeper and her words are meaner than you expected.]
The script I came up with was an effortless trash, unwanted, carried under compulsion. Perhaps it called for a public breakdown scene in the style of Teremov, but it would require too much effort on my part to get the actors I got there.  I did feel a tingle of regret about tarnishing such a good location with such a mediocre project. The cafe we were in was already closed five years ago, when I just started to attend Lubrava's University of Arts. Back then, looking at the boarded up windows, the facade ravaged by graffiti,  I was disappointed. It took some time to develop the taste for desolation. We cleaned it up for the shoot, of course, but the air was still full of dust and decay and tiny pieces of broken glass, piercing my lungs from the inside.
[You look around. The apartment is overflowing with trash, torn closes and discarded food. The smell is bearable but within the rotten aroma there is something else, more sinister and frightening, that you cannot pinpoint.]
“Shelly, you’re going blind with all this hatred!" yelled Jorn McLinsky and threw a nervous glance right into the camera. Now, Jorn, he was as nepo as babies go. His father, Oliver McLinsky, was, presently, completely irrelevant as an actor and very influential as an elderly party animal. Everybody who mattered in the industry knew Oliver and his sons way too well. His older offsprings were all set up, committing unspeakable atrocities at frat parties, with acting gigs lined up years before graduation. But Jorn… Would you name your son “Jorn” if you loved him? Once, with an open anguish on his face, the poor guy said that his name was supposed to signify the God of War. To me it just meant that a few centuries earlier his dad would’ve sent him to serve on a ship far far away, to die from some close-casket mandating sea sickness. This estrangeness, alongside a childishly provocative hairstyle of a chamomile mid explosion, gave him a certain earnestness that I, against my will, found slightly charming. What it didn’t give is a single crumb of talent.
“At least I am going somewhere!” shrieked his co-star, Lisa, in response, pointing angrily at the dried up crow’s head (fake, of course), hanging from her neck on a thick rope that was supposed to look like a noose. I checked the script. The line was supposed to be delivered COLDLY, capitalised and in bold, and yet Lisa has worked herself up into a boiling state anyway.
Whatever.
It’s all part of the deal, Venera, I said to myself, as my fingers traced the damaged wood of the chair I was sitting on with my fingers.
Just wait it out.
One among the horde of waitresses stepped forward, a girl I had no recollection of.
“Please, sir, madame, be quiet.”
[Another voice breached through the tape. Melodic, slightly broken. Your heart ached.]
This line wasn’t in the script. Instead, she plucked it right from inside my head. Jorn and Lisa, embarrassed, kept going, half improvising a way out of a mess of their own making, but my attention drifted away completely.
The girl was pretty and that is as much as my self-control allowed me to think about a complete stranger that may disappear from my life within an hour. Words like beautiful, striking, gorgeous were too fateful, too painful to lose. And yet, she was much more. I did not remember her from the audition, through the endless blur of faces. Her long white hair glided down past her fair skinned neck and narrow shoulders at length I never allowed by black curls to reach. The girl possessed round grey eyes that balanced between troubling and visibly troubled. Exactly what I needed.
[Keep your cool]
Already dim sunlight that made its way down through the thick clouds was slowly sucked out of the room as time crawled forward. Despite it being September, darkness always comes early in this decade. Scientists came up with an explanation for that, but I could not care less about the cause. It is a fact of life, not the one I could affect but the one I had to adapt to. I called the end of the shoot. There was enough material to make something passable at that point, which is enough. I’ve had my eyes on something more important after all. The girl must have felt it too, taking the longest time to collect things into her tiny bag, waiting for everyone else to leave. We never met each other's gaze, not until Jorn clumsily smashed the door behind him, finally leaving us alone.
I silently moved towards her, slithering between half-packed equipment and deeply scratched coffee tables. She just stood there, in the corner, with her back pridefully towards me, full of allure and confidence. Someone who can balance on the edge of the knife, maintain a fiction of hunting and being hunted at the same time. Exactly who I want, who I desperately need.
“Miss Zeller, I was so honoured to be a part of your new project.” she said, still facing away from me. I can hear her playful voice, both in my head and on a recording from this very tape recorder in front of me, always hidden in my bag when I go outside. It takes a while to edit these but I must always have time for self-reflection.
“Oh, don’t ‘Miss’ me, please, we are…” while I was talking, she turned around, her big eyes aimed straight at me. Provoking me to stutter and show weakness, successfully, “…ehm. I’m at most a few years older. Don’t sweat the formalities, just call me Venera.”
“I am too starstruck for that.” She smiled at me, tight lips, coy and teasing. I blushed, losing the battle. “Such familiarity with someone like you must feel earned.”
“I’m sure if we work together this shyness of yours will pass.”
She made a step towards me.
“Oh, I would love to!”
“Well, there is a new big project I’m working on right now.” I replied confidently, trying to regain the initiative.
“A new horror movie?”
There was a hope in her voice and that hope hurt. I averted my eyes to the side and grabbed one of the dusty cups from the counter. There was a tiny crack on it.
“Why, you did not like my Macbeth?” I asked, tracing the line on the china alongside which already started damage would spread with my finger.
“Well, you know. It was definitely a hit with the teachers.” My smile started to crack too, as she continued, “I much prefer Guts of the Snow Alley, but it’s a matter of taste.”
[The blood on the ground was frozen, alone, abandoned. Watching it, you felt hollowed, attacked, and understood.]
She flustered me. Can you believe it? The audacity.
“Hey, I can make a great adaptation if I put my all into it”.
I did not even realize that I made an admission – my Macbeth sucked. It was way too straightforward, way too obvious. I became complacent.
The girl shook her head.
"You should keep writing your own scripts. They’re full of such profound understanding of suffering. Your movies hurt me deeply on every re-watch, I love them, love them to death.”
Another step and now her pale face is so close I can easily hide it within my palm.
“I’m always glad to meet a devotee.” I tried to give my words an ironic twist but they came out as sincere as her praise.
“Now that The Itch, a new movie from old man Bergman, flopped in the very first week, you can take Lubrava’s throne of psychosexual allegories from that grandpa.”
“Hey now.” I was very flattered but could not let this slander stand, “The Itch is actually quite good. Gregory is my main inspiration and if you attack him, I will consider it a personal offence.”
It was a joke. I let people be wrong however much they want, unless it’s about my own art of course.
“He’s good but you’re something else entirely.” Her praise was relentless, “Truth be told: I did not leave my dorm room for several days after watching My Last Teeth. I could not stop smelling the rot on the staircase, it was horrible.”
“Apologies. I’m glad it’s not a problem anymore.” I laughed a little.
“I’m good now. The smell is still there, but I’ve learned to enjoy it.”
This girl was good. I walked back to my desk and she followed me, now keeping a respectful distance.
The girl asked me once more: “So what is your new film about then?” A mix of excitement, concern and sweetness poured out of her with every word.
“It is a new horror film, just like you want. About a young woman, someone very much like you, crying, screaming for help, haunted, driven to violence. The good stuff.”
I was making it all up as I looked into her sparkling gaze. In reality, the script was non-existent, stuck in limbo, not just unborn but not even at the conception. Until that very moment. Because the woman in front of me fit into my spirit. Despite her careful smile and neatly arranged braided hair, her eyes betrayed deeply seeded damage. Its leaves only started to peak out from behind her eyelids, the spores flowing out with her every breath.
I recognized her pulsing light of careful balance, one step from a collapse. Finding one of these is always hard. These flowers of trouble rarely bloom past 30, and usually join the soil every earlier. I could not pass on this chance.
I grabbed a notepad from my pocket and wrote down the address, a time a few hours before dawn and my phone number on it.
“How about we try to shoot some tests tomorrow, and if it works out we’ll grab the rest of the crew and start for real?”
Without hesitation or a modicum of surprise, she hid the note in the pocket of her brilliant green skirt, short enough for me to forget the rest of the world for a single moment.
“See you tomorrow then.”
Our eyes met – and lost contact. She headed to the exit, without looking back. I was standing there, dumbfounded, struck with a wild lightning called… Called what? She finally turned around and responded before I could even ask the question.
“Christine. Christine Applebrangh, second year, acting.”
[Your entire body hurts, bones aching in agony.]
Christine threw me one last glance and closed the door behind her, leaving me alone in a dusty silence of the soon to be once again abandoned cafe. It took me a whole minute to get back to reality. I felt great. Drunk, in a way. To the point where I could not find my gloves. I definitely left them on the desk when I came in. An old gift from an old story. Maybe it is symbolic that they’re gone now. It must be.
I'm looking forward to tomorrow. Me and her, alone in the woods.
[Her crackling voice dissolves back into background noise. You eject the tape from the player and put it aside. There are many more to go through, dates scribbled on their labels. You find many more, stashed in a crate nearby, yet the one you’ve just listened to, dated short of a month ago, and the ones with following dates, are separated, scattered all over the workbench. The handwriting on these starts messy and by the end becomes barely intelligible. You dig through the tapes and find the latest one.]
[According to the label, it was recorded today.]
[You should ignore the rest and only listen to the final tape. You do not.]


Chapter 1.
Drawing me would be very simple. Start with a square: don’t make it too big, I can’t pay so much in rent. Yes, that would be my apartment in the middle of other squares of this concrete Nowhereland. Now drop inside a dot. That is me in all my simplistic essence.
If, for some strange reasons, you want to go deeper, start with the eyes. There should be green somewhere in there, hidden behind all the blood of battles with harsh blue lights. Add the red mess of hair, curly in an exact way to get everywhere it’s not supposed to go. I cut and cut and cut it down and yet the war goes on.
You want to keep going? Fine, add a computer table and a narrow bed. Door outside, for emergencies only. Practically empty kitchen, barely used. No windows required.
What do you mean that can’t be it? Me and my little existence feel quite offended at such a statement. I work at a boring office-outside-of-office job (hence PC), I kill time in endlessly frustrating online games (again, PC) and I sleep (hence the bed). I’m getting by and that’s all there is. Right?
I’m glad you agree. Now, it all would be harmonious, if not for one thing.
“Alina! I’m back!”
Speak of the devil that slams the door open at this very moment. My best friend since high school. She barely changed since back then, at least the way I see her. The disaster that keeps (trying to) drag me outside and bothers me on the inside. I pretend to ignore her, pretend to work. “The company needs this feature tested. Today.”, I begin to recite in my head the leave-me-alone spell. Why, you may ask? Natural aversion to inevitable hardship would be my answer. It was not a lie either. The work, doing Quality Assurance for a company, major but not in a sexy high paying way, was quite comfortable but rather ungrateful and plentiful. I pushed through it slowly and as rarely as possible, despite having nothing else to do.
Chrisy rushes in, filling the entire room with the violet smell of her perfume. Since the only other place to sit (my one and only chair) is currently occupied, Miss Disaster drops on the bed with a massive slam, like she was thrown there from the ceiling by a professional wrestler. My left hand grips the poor plastic of my house ever harder and I try to speak up.
“The compa…”
“Aly! You will not believe what happened today!”
I actually will. My life experience is so limited that I would probably believe whatever story she could conjure. With resigned expression, I slowly rotate on my chair to face her. New makeup, new hairstyle, new clothes – she changed these very frequently yet was always immediately recognizable. She gets up, opens her bag and puts four chicken flavoured instant noodles cups on my already overloaded table. Not that Christine approved of my monotone and very spicy diet, but she knew that the most likely alternative is me starving to death.
I sheepishly let go of the mouse and turn towards her:
“What is it this time? Did That-Bitch-Lisa talk over you again? I’m telling you, these rich assholes from your school are never gonna…”
Christine waves her hands impatiently.
“No, no, I meant something good. Amazing even. World shaking. Cosmos warping. Dead rising, desert greening…”
“Like, The Second Coming?” For a second, I thought I actually missed the event my parents were so obsessed with I had to eventually cut all ties with them. It wouldn’t surprise me too much, after all, my apartment was technically underground, with no windows. “It is not technically underground, it literally is on a negative third floor”. Okay imaginary-Chrisy-in-my-head, please stand by, I have a real deal over there.
Meanwhile, the actual Chrisy once again interprets my naivety as mockery and throws my only pillow at me. It smashes me on top of my head and stays there for a moment before falling down over an empty can of chips on the floor.
“Remember I was talking about that movie? My Last Teeth?” she asks.
I closed my eyes with sincere intensity.
“Oh, the one which made you shut-in just like me for a bit? That was great. You were finally relatable.”
A lie. These days were dire.
…
Look, Me. I was just worrying about my friend, even if she herself treated it like a kind of fun emotional rollercoaster. I, on the other hand, had unlimited “me time”, free from pointless gossip about people I’ll never meet. That week was a very nice break from all this noise, which is confirmed with the fact that I spent half of it in bed, eyes closed, blanket over head. The true image of happiness.
I come back to reality and see her worried face.
“…Alina, are you okay?”
I nod.
“Yeah, just a hard day at work. What was that about a movie?”
The glowing light of excitement overtakes her features once more.
“So. The director of My Last Teeth and a bunch of other great indie films is actually a final year student at my school, and not one of the legacy moneybag ones. Well, I think her parents work in the industry, but she’s not some unsufferable rich girl like Lisa. Her name is Venera Zeller. I think I’ve mentioned her to you already.”
“Yeah, probably.”
She is now in her happy mode so my failure was forgiven on the spot.
“Anyway, Venera held an audition for a small project she’s doing for school. I auditioned and got the role…”
“Who’re you playing?” I’m actually interested but this question suddenly makes Christine  annoyed for some reason.
“Look, it does not matter. What matters is that I’ve had a private chat with her. With Venera Zeller herself, one on one, tête-à-tête, eye to eye. Her films are so cool. So… Aaaagh!” Chrisy yells a little with excitement.
Hey, Body, my friend is telling me a story here, can you stop sending me “You’re going to die, like, right now because suddenly and for no apparent reason everything hurts” signals? Thanks.
My throat did not seem to receive the memo and I cough out barely audible “That’s great.”
“But that’s not all!” Christine continues, now jumping up and down on the bed like her body is possessed by a spirit of a happy puppy, “She loved me on set and wants to star me in her next, real, project! Well, at least to try me out. Can you believe it?!”
Was this room always so big? Pretty sure I used to be able to hit the bedframe with my foot while sitting by the table, yet right now it feels like Christine is somewhere between Saturn and Jupiter. Meanwhile, while I’m consumed by the questions of geometry, my mouth turns on a bitter autopilot.
“Directors love to tell that to pretty young actresses, you know?”
Good job, Alina. That was definitely not a colossal mistake.
“Don’t say stupid things. She’s not like that.” To my surprise, Christine is closer to slight annoyance than anger. Strange. “I mean, I was blistering hot out there, but don’t make it sound so vulgar.”
“Sorry, sorry, you know, I’m just worried.”
Christine falls back at my bed and stares at the ceiling happily.
“Look, that woman probably is fucking crazy, all of the great artists are and she’s at the very top, at least for me. But I’m a smart girl, you know that. I’ve been through worse.”
We don’t usually talk about ‘the worse’, hers or mine, and so my deeply dormant social skills finally kick in. Change the direction of this conversation!
“Anyway, what are her movies even about?”
Not that I care about this Venera woman, but Chrisy seems genuinely affected by her movies. Also, I really need to pivot from the idea of a link between her unbelievable attractiveness and why anyone would cast her as a lead. I don’t want her to think that I do not believe in her talent. Because I do. I do believe in her talent. Really.
“Well, usually she makes supernatural horror movies. Low budget, which makes sense, she is still a student, if already established in the field. Unlike most of the people at our school, she actually got in by talent. You know what? I will just show you one and you will get it.”
“…like, right now?”
She takes over my mouse, gently pushes my chair away and as I helplessly drift across my room I see her open our common cloud storage and go to the “Movies” folder. I saw it before but never cared to look inside. An endless wall of files, probably definitely completely legally obtained, fills the screen.
“My Last Teeth is just over an hour long.” She finds the “<3 V. Zeller” folder at the top and clicks on the first of about a dozen files in it, then immediately pauses it at 00:00:00 mark. The whole screen is now just pure black.
“But… but my work…” My weak objections are not heard, as Chrisy disappears into the tiny kitchen. Moments later she returns with two sodas, the sugary grape one that I like and the horribly bitter rotten lemon one I hate but keep in the fridge just for her. Chrisy kicks random trash to the side on her way back.
“We really need to clean up next time I come.”
But everything is in its rightful place! That candy wrapper on the floor is slowly moving towards the garbage can. Just give it a few more days.
No, I won’t say that outloud.
Excited Chrisy turns off the warm glow of a large lightbulb, dangling from the ceiling on alarmingly and deceptively thin wires.We get on my bed in front of the screen. Our legs touch. Hey, maybe it’s not such a bad idea?
I want to say something but she shooshes me immediately. The screen starts to move, barely. Low, barely pulsing noise fills our ears. Darkness drifts aside, slowly revealing the face of a young blonde woman. She’s tense, big light blue eyes wide open and unblinking.
“Polina Mars.” – appears for a brief moment on a screen at the bottom.
Behind the woman, slowly, a pair of large hands unfold and crawl towards her. They grab her shoulders, pushing on them from above.
“William Zeller” – appears on top.
They stay motionless for several seconds, the only thing moving being the veins visibly pumping blood through purple veins on man’s tightening arms.
“Film by Venera Zeller” shows up right in the middle, swiftly replaced by the title card.
“My Final Teeth”
The quiet noise of a tiny shrilling drill pierces the background hum and is the only thing to remain as the screen fades to black once more.
…
An hour that feels like three goes by.
…
The girl, whose name we never learn, is sitting on a staircase, in front of a space where she murdered her abusive father a few scenes ago. The corpse is long gone but her eyes are still blurry. I, just like her, feel like this horrible tension will never end – and then the video file abruptly ends. Someone pokes my side with a finger and I jump a little, landing on the bed with my back.
“So, how was it?” I can see Chrisy’s big grey eyes glow in the dark. The finger is still pointed towards me, ready to strike into all of my weak spots, learned through years of mostly one-sided battles.
“Well…” I struggle to find words. This is the first movie I’ve seen in forever and it wasn’t exactly a friendly viewing experience.
“Did you like it?”
In the light of a faint glow of the static screen, I can see her passion.
“I suppose.” My true feelings are closer to being constantly screamed at by someone armed with a rusty hammer but my brain cannot come up with an adequate sentence to communicate that. Wait, I guess that was it? “I felt like someone armed with a hammer screamed at me for a while.”
She nods.
“In a cool way, right?”
Is there a cool way to do that? I suppose there may be. The way I feel right now is definitely novel. I ask one of many questions haunting me:
“The scene where he pulls her front tooth with a hammer, that wasn't real, was it? Because it sure looked way too real.”
“The part where you screamed a little?”
Chrisy is a tease, as always. I overcome my embarrassment and reply:
“Yeah, that one.”
“Well, it is kind of real. There is a commentary track with Venera and the lead, Polina Maris, where they say the idea for this movie came up when Polina had one of her front teeth removed after an accident. She’s got a new one installed eventually but since there was a time before the operation they attached a fake one and pretended to crack and rip it out.”
These pragmatic production details pull me out from the terror inflicted by the screen, yet leave me with a lingering question: what kind of accident would cause that in the first place? I ask Chrisy but she, to her own visible frustration, does not know. I decide to give her something easier:
“The guy that played The Father is called Blah-blah Zeller, right? Related, I assume?”
I got a bonus smile from Chrisy as a reward for paying attention.
“Yeah, he’s Venera’s older brother. They had to use a lot of makeup to make him older and uglier.”
“It’s nice to have a supporting family, I guess. Although I’m not sure if this ‘horribly abusive father’ plot comes from a real place…”
There is a melancholic tint on Christine’s face:
“Probably not. At least not to the degree my parents were shit or, well, yours are.”
I don’t mind her saying that – I haven’t spoken to them in years which wasn’t hard since they never tried to reach out to their casted out daughter in the first place.
We talk about the movie a bit more, but eventually Christine’s keen eyes notice that I’m visibly exhausted. She shelves it for another time and turns on the light. I flinch and hide under the blanket.
She moves closer to me and lays her hand where mine is hidden below the blanket. I immediately stop moving to avoid scaring her away.
“Thank you for sharing this with me. I hope you actually enjoyed it.”
“I think I did.” I answer honestly.
“Anyway, I have to go. Classes in the morning and my first shoot with Zeller in the evening so I won’t be here tomorrow. Sorry.”
I sit up and look at her.
“It’s okay.” I say to her and to myself, “You know I’m not going anywhere. Good luck with your shoot tomorrow.”
Christine lingers for a second. She seems confused and concerned. Somehow, I sense that this is her true face, and the thought suddenly makes me uncomfortable, like a breeze of freezing air. Chrisy meets my eyes once more, then gets up and leaves, only throwing a short “Bye-bye” and a handwave on her way. The door freely slams behind her, locking automatically. I stay on the bed and stare at the wall. Chrisy is gone, with only her fragrance slowly dissipating in the air. 
I lay in bed, in the hour of tears, yet there are no tears in sight. No thoughts either. The film hides dormant in my chest, overshadowed by feelings stirred with that one last look.

Tape 2. 30/09.
[The earlier the date, the more used up the tapes look seem. You find the next one. The room around you is heavy with silence until the moment you press Play.]
I’m really tired, but I must recall everything as it was, before the details slip away into the night.
Where did it start? Today’s morning feels so far away.
The hair. It started with the hair, my hair. The hair did not work out. I tried everything, but their usual darkness seemed bleak. The curls refused to compose into something attractive and striking, instead insisting on inappropriate silliness. Some strange red dot chose this day of all days to appear on my left cheek. I felt foolish and pathetic. After twenty minutes of intensive battle in front of the tall mirror in my room, the negotiations ended in a peace, unsatisfying to everyone involved yet the one that had to do.
I decided on my tight and thin night dress and started to rummage the closet for high-heeled shoes when the first bright thought of the whole day occurred to me.
“Idiot. You’re going to be filming in the forest.”
[Same voice but a different recording. You’re wondering if she actually said it out loud in the moment while constantly recording herself or if this is purely a recreation, made after the fact.]
I opted out for a jacket, skinny jeans and a pair of slick black sneakers. Tiny handbag to fit a recorder, as always. Spent the next hour applying make-up to compensate.
Got more compliments than usual during the classes. That felt right. What didn’t is what happened when I returned to my desk after a lunch break. There was a note from Lisa Vont, the girl I casted in a throwaway thing from yesterday. My eyes skimmed through all the usual pleasantries and admirations straight to the point.
“I came to the set this morning to do some solo practice and have found your gloves. You must have left them there yesterday. I’ve left them on your desk.”
[She reads it outloud, making a high-pitched voice. No love for Lisa, it seems.]
What a bitch. There were no gloves on the set when I left and there were none on my desk right now. Did she take them during the shoot? Is she making fun of me? Trying to start trouble?
In that case, she is successful.
I spent the rest of the school day brooding. It took a text message from an unknown number to pull me out from this anger.
“16:30, in the parking lot, right? I cannot wait!”
[Still Venera, but this time the voice she makes is hard to describe in any way other than “seductive”]
I text her back a simple “Yes.” and pack my things. The gloves were still missing and it hurt more than I’m willing to admit. When Polina was leaving she took not only her things, but also most of her gifts. Out of spite, I suppose. The gloves were the rarity, the one thing I managed to hide away. And now they’re gone. I will never see them again.
[You hear only ambient crackling and noise for at least ten seconds.]
I don’t remember how I got to my car. Sweet little thing, I would not give her up, despite all their efforts. It was 16:24, no Christine in sight. Ten minutes passed. Was she playing me? Making me nervous? Probably not. Actors are not known for how punctual they are.
As that thought passed through my brain Christine walked out of the campus doors. One look at her and I remembered why I was even bothering. In the reddish light of the falling sun Christine was dazzling. Mind you, the fact that she looked gorgeous is not interesting in itself. There are so many flawlessly beautiful women in the University, like they’ve been made in a Perfect Looks Factory. Being pretty was not enough. Christine was odd. Memorable. Her eyes were too big, jaw too straight, mouth too thin and curvy, nose too narrow. Somehow, all of it was in harmony. A face to haunt your dreams and regrets. 
She wore a long blue skirt and white shirt with rolled up sleeves, unbuttoned with intent. I remember forcing myself to stop staring. Thinking that maybe that this all was too soon, after... Regardless, we got into my car and I drove off, without either of us saying a word.
We crawled through Lubrava. I could not stop thinking about Polina, about the past, about the damn gloves. I dared not to look at my companion. From my windshield, the dying city stared at me from the broken windows and abandoned houses. After turning surrounding lands and towns into desolated desert, it felt like now it was finally Lubrava’s turn to depart into the nether. The traffic was suffocating. Constant police cars cutting through, demanding a way on their path to enact violence, did not help the situation. No pedestrians in sight. Despite the warm weather, I had windows rolled up shut, to keep pollution and noise out. Lubrava has only two voices: slow decay and vile whispers. I used to think differently. I was proven wrong. As concrete towers crumbled day after day, the movement, if not life itself, existed only underground, in the tunnels, slithering and whispering vile blasphemies, leaving the surface to the still moving dead. Christine would have to understand it too, if she wanted to truly shine.
After we left the last giant of black glass behind us and entered the cemetery of a silent residential area, Christine finally started to talk.
“I re-watched ‘My Final Teeth’ yesterday.”
[Christine’s voice is barely audible, drowning in violent car noises.]
I nodded. She continued, while trying to catch my eyes with hers:
“It’s amazing. I was showing it to my friend and I think she liked it too.”
“Good.”
Good? I wanted her to speak but now, after sitting in a car, silently, I got too much thinking done. My chest felt cold and heavy. What am I even doing here? Trying to make a new horror, return to the old formula, old me? Am I just trying to fuck this girl? Is this what it’s all about? Is that all I am?
I couldn't turn my head and look at Christine. She spoke up once more:
“She actually wondered about that tooth pulling scene. I’ve listened to the commentary track, obviously, but I wanted to ask… How did Miss Maris actually lose it?”
Why was she asking me about Polina?
“It was an accident. A car crash, just a few days after the last New Year’s Eve. Luckily, she’s only lost a single tooth and my injuries were limited to a broken leg. Had I not swirled away at the last moment, we would both be dead.”
[You hear an audible sigh, no doubt coming from Christine’s chest.]
“There are so many reckless drivers nowadays. Every time I see a highway I can feel my insides being dragged across concrete with rubber and metal. Ho…”
I had to interrupt her.
“Tell me more about that friend of yours. What did she think? Was that the first movie of mine she saw?”
“Yeah. Her name is Alina and she was a big art head back in high school. We were there together, sharing the back end of the classroom: I was the rough kid and she just wanted to hide from the teacher's eye to write non-sense in her mountain of multicolored notebooks.”
“What was she writing?” I asked, trying to keep my eyes on the road. There was an unwelcome tenderness in Christine’s voice.
“Well, don’t laugh, but mostly – Bible fanfiction. I know, I know. Her family was strange to say the least, but it’s not my story to tell. After Alina ran away to college, she stopped writing. I think it made her think of all the stuff from back then too much. Unpleasant correlations and all that. Same reason I don’t smoke anymore.”
“So what does Alina do now?”
“Oh” Nostalgic overtones weakened in Christine’s voice but did not disappear completely, “Nothing, really. Dropped out, works a dull job, plays games. What a waste of potential. Her stories were good. I am not exactly in the Jesus fan club and never was, but Alina always put a crazy spin on his adventures, with some truly shocking endings that I’m sure her former pastor would not approve of. The was one where after the Romans crucified him, the cross, like, merged into his body. But stayed as wood, inside his flesh. Very graphic descriptions in that one. Jesus did not die in that story either, tormented by both doubts of his destiny and, you know, all the splinters.”
[You pause the tape. You look around and notice a large vertical mirror that Venera mentioned earlier, or at least what used to be one. It’s so utterly damaged that you can barely meet your own gaze. There is dried up blood in the cracks.]
[You take a deep breath and press Play.]
At first, I was just glad not to be the center of attention, of unwanted questions and doubts. Yet, as my companion went on and on, there was something else. This Alina, a ‘dumbass hermit’ [Christine voice comes on to say that part]. Someone clearly close to her. A danger or an opportunity?
“Can I meet this Alina of yours?” I asked, tracing the leather of the steering wheel with my left hand up and down. A pause followed, way too long to be appropriate.
“I suppose.”, she answered, negatively.
Christine was jealous and did not want to lose my attention. This thought made me feel much better. My meandering mind came back to the driving seat. We were squarely out of the city limit and almost out of daylight, rolling through darkening walls of tall and endless forest. The white clinical light of lampposts followed the empty road but we would not stay in it for too long.
“Maybe this Alina could help us with the film. There is always a place for helping hands. Carrying lights or mic around. If she used to be a writer, I may use her while I finish up the script.” I said, looking for an upcoming right turn in the dark. Christine did not respond. The rest of the way she spent reading and re-reading the two pages of script I’ve printed for her. These were the only ones I had so far: I needed to see how things were looking before committing fully to this thing.
Finally, our turn off the main road came up, straight into a large and round forest clearing. There used to be a small seasonal settlement there, the name of which escapes my memory. Now, its only visible remains are bent and rusted metal rods that protrude from the ground. They threatened to inflict wounds that would not heal.
It got dark, too dark. We arrived there too late. I took out my camera from the trunk in a hurry. I’ve had a simple light installation with me but I wanted everything to look natural. It’s a horror after all, perhaps the fact that you can barely see anything would work out for the best.
“We should go deeper.” I called out to my actress. She was away, standing in the middle of a former village, looking at the ground.
We ventured into the black forest. The going was not easy, with a heavy camera on my shoulder and constant thorny bushes and unearthed roots attempting to trip me and destroy the priceless equipment. For once I was thankful for our digital age – in the comfort of my home, I record these recollections on tape and edit in soundbites it picks up in the wild, but I am not principled enough to shoot on film. Christine walked behind me with a flashlight. We were in the thick of it now and I started to wonder if my obsession with her would survive the road.
Then, I froze in place, probably too suddenly as the girl crashed into my back and almost sent me to the ground.This was it. The naked leafless trunks of the dead birches were close enough to each other but not too close. The darkness felt oppressive yet still shallow enough for my camera to have enough photons to work with. There was a trail, trodden in the not so distant past, yet overgrown, and barely visible.
“Okay, let’s start while we still have the time.” I said while setting up the camera. No sound recording for this one. Whatever ambient music I decide on will be added in post and I did not plan to record any speech this time around. And for purposes of this diary of mine, this light recorder would suffice.
We started to shoot. As instructed, Christine would walk along the path. I filmed her from the back and from time to time she would look at the camera, concerned, scared, just as the script demanded. We did a bunch of takes, going forward each time, without retracing our steps. Dead silence, even sickly green grass under our steps collapsing into a mush without a note of complaint. Despite the rapidly cooling air, I felt better and better. The thin white columns or trees seemed a foreign, powerful and alien, when contrasted with the endless darkness behind them and a lonely and vulnerable woman on the front. Impersonating this girl, whom I did not name yet, Christine kept going forward, slowly, like she was being pulled there by a malicious force.
Yes, yes, it was great. I made no mistakes casting her, the look on Christine’s face when she did the scripted look back was of exact pain I wanted, the fear of upcoming ravaged violence so real it made me feel bad for her for a second, before I remembered that it was all a play.
“Alright!” I said excitedly to her, “Let’s try the next one. I’ll film you from the front. Please warn me if I’m going to hit a tree walking backwards.”
I smiled and she did too. We kept walking forward and I increased my pace to overtake her. But just as I was passing her, Christine suddenly stopped.
“What’s wrong?” I asked.
She pointed her finger ahead of us:
“What the hell is that?”
[Her voice is low and quiet.]
The path ahead led to a small hill and ended at the steeply inclined black door. It was made of wood and deeply damaged: corrosive rains and the woodland bugs that are hardy enough to still inhibit these lands turned it swollen in some places and brittle in the others. Yet it still covered the space behind itself, without letting a single ray of Christine’s flashlight come through.
The sun was long gone at this point.
“What should we do?” Christine asked me. Her face was deathly white in the artificial light.
I pulled on the door handle. Despite my expectation, it opened easily, revealing a cloud of vile smell that dissipated into the cool forest air within seconds. Behind it was a wooden ladder going down into pure uninterrupted darkness.
I wanted to go inside at that very moment. Christine was facing me, her face shrouded in dark. I could not read her emotions.
“Let’s check it out.” I turned around, one leg already on the top step, “This may very well be the perfect location for our film.”
I lit up my own flashlight and started to climb down. Christine, standing by the door, slowly disappeared from my view. The deeper I went, the colder the surrounding air became, overflowing with a smell of moist earth and rotten wood. The way down was way longer than I expected. My mind went back to the city, to the Underground, the last refuge of possibilities. I haven’t been there since the break-up, toiling above it, wasting my youth on the surface, on which even the sun, its most ardent ally, barely bothers to shine anymore. Perhaps, it’s time to revisit the Lair and the Chapel and even the Razor Alleys…
These thoughts and nostalgic feelings overtook me completely and I did not notice that I had already reached the bottom.
“Can you move? Please?” Whispered as loudly as she could Christine, standing on the ladder above me.
I stepped aside. We were surrounded by the thick layer of soil and rickety looking wooden supports. It was a small and empty space with a single way forward.
“Let’s film you walking in.” I started to prepare the camera.
She hesitated.
“Maybe we should look around first.”
Despite my rapidly rising enthusiasm, I relented. The space looked grave and evil, and Christine, with her white hair scattered across the darkness and frightened, strained facial expression, fit in very well.
The hallway ahead turned out to be quite short and ended in another room, a dead end. It was shaped like a half-circle and would barely be able to fit five or six people at most. The smell here was different and sweet, but I was unable to pinpoint it to anything specific. A single simple chair stood on the side, but what instantly drew my attention was a massive… Table? Cabinet? Shrine? It occupied the entirety of the wall opposite to the entrance. With Christine appearing beside me and the amount of light doubled, I started to look at it more closely.
It was a complicated workbench, of a sort. Many tools were scattered on its surface: most were thin, long, some bent, all sharp at the edges, darkened and rusted through use. There were cracked mallets, plastic tubes half filled with dried up blackness, an assortment of needles and one broken knife. Dispersed between them were tiny bones and shards of larger ones, thin interweavings of hair, squarish pieces of skin. It was all scattered on the surfaces in a complete chaos, with one exception – all of these tools stayed away from the very center of this desk. There, carved out from the same brown wood as the rest of the massive object before us, inseparable from it, was a small and crooked human figure - a head, torso and two arms, hands submerged into the top layer of the table it grew out of.
I squinted to try and get a better look at it, but it was just that – a figure, smooth to the eye and to the touch, as I glided my fingers where its eyes were supposed to be. Behind me, Christine raised her voice.
“Miss Zeller? …I think you should stop touching that thing.”
[There is a pulsating hum in the audio that was not there before. You immediately recognize it and your heart starts beating faster.]
I looked back, confused. Christine’s face was full of fear and repulsion, aimed not at me, thankfully, but at the carved child I was caressing.
“It’s just a statue, relax.” I answered calmly, but it did not help. Something was wrong, but I could not figure out what. Sure, this place was definitely filthy and offputting and undeniably connected to something deeply revolting but…
“Whatever it is, it’s filled with some… shit or melted flesh or devil knows what. It’s pouring right over your fingers.” She whispered loudly and pulled me back by my jacket.
I turned around but saw only a smooth surface, just as before. It was… very confusing. I took a few steps back, just to placate her. The room was still and silent, aside from us two.
“Please wipe your hands.” Christine pulled a pack of small paper tissues from her back pocket and tossed me a few.
I was decidedly odd, pretending to wipe out something completely invisible. As I was going through this pointless task, Christine’s breathing got calmer.
“What is this place?” shes asked while looking around with a face full of concern, “The dirt here has the wrong colour.”
There were uneven matches of reddish-brown patches scattered across the floor.
“Well, if my guess is correct, you shouldn’t think about it too much.”
We searched the room further. Well, mostly I did that and Christine just stood there, glancing at every object surrounding her with a look full of primal disgust. Which makes it more surprising that the only worthy find, aside from this glorious room of blasphemy itself, was on Christine’s account.
“I think I see something over there.” she pointed down. There was composure to her now, will and dignity.
Something was shining in her flashlight’s ray, right below the lonely chair. At this point I was on the other side, setting up the camera.
“Can you pick it up?”
She crouched, slowly, trying to avoid any contact with the chair itself, and picked up a small metallic object from the floor. Christine walked back to me, barely holding it in her fingers like it was a writhing leech. It was a small yet intricate grey ring.
“Do you want to keep this?” I asked. She clearly did not.
“…I think you should have it. Maybe it will be useful later. As a prop. On a finger. Or sitting on a table. Or inside a chest, buried and forgotten. …please, be careful. It’s all jagged on the inside.”
There was a regained sweetness in Christine’s voice, the same one from yesterday. She managed to wrestle back control. I was glad. It is important to be resilient. As she passed me the ring, our hands touched. Her warm fingers brought me out from the frenzy and I started to feel the cold of the surrounding underground.
We shot a few takes. I tried to keep both Christine and the Shrine in focus but I could not find an appropriate aperture for the puny amount of light we possessed. It was too early and too late for anything proper regardless. I need to process everything, compress these experiences into a narrative. The girl finds a mysterious underground temple in the woods, and then what? It can’t end the way our adventure did: with an exhausting and tiring walk back home through the same forest, now moonlit, drained of unseen evils. We did not talk as we walked back to the car, on the road that despite our tiredness felt much much shorter in this direction. We did not talk as I drove us back into the city. Christine tried to call somebody on the way back but got no response. At the very end, we could only muster simple ‘goodbyes’. As she stumbled towards the entrance, I thought to myself: one day soon this girl will get herself in trouble. It would be sad but also, intensely dramatic… The doom is so intensely attractive.
I should rewatch the footage tomorrow. I’m back in shape now. I can feel it.
[The tape ends. You take it out and put it back in its place when you notice a disk laying near it. “The Shrine of Honesty. 30/08”, it says. You put it in the DVD player. The massive TV above it comes to live.]
[It’s so dark you can barely see anything, and even then, the screen is covered in constant invasive noise. It snakes through the video, splits into branches, collapses down the screen like a wave. It is only 11 seconds long. You see Christine, standing in the middle of a small room. Her face, desperate and determined, teeth clenched in her mouth. There is a massive object behind her. It’s hard to see its details. Christine tries to avoid looking at it. The thing is pulsating, alive, or maybe that’s just the artifacts, the constant camera shake, the dark, everything, anything.]
[You already know the answer all too well.]

Chapter 2.

I am consumed by the darkness. From an enormous screen in front of me, a giant face of a woman is looking at me with a mixture of animalistic lust and dominance.
“Veo M4. The only smartphone you’ll ever need.” she whispers seductively.
The woman's face disappears and now it’s just her giant eyes and a slowly spinning slick black shape on the side. Maybe I do need an upgrade…?
Another ad appears on the movie screen and resets my attention. This time, it’s some really buff guys on the beach playing volleyball and swimming in the sea. Somehow, the beer, Lubravan’s Bull, is the most important element of their fun. My mind wanders away.
Despite my fears, it’s quite comfortable here in the movie theater. It helps that aside from me there is only one person here, a young guy with a silly “I got struck by a lightning” haircut, sitting at the front row, paying me zero attention. The cinema hall smells of ancient textiles and moisture, in a surprisingly comfortable way. We’re below the ground and the ceiling is low, but my living arrangement made me used  to cave-like environments.
I keep recalling yesterday: not just Christy, but the film we’ve watched. At this point I am pretty confident that I liked it. I’ve seen movies before, of course. Once in a few months I did get to wonder what was up with that big blockbuster everybody was arguing about on the internet. Usually, not much.  What was more intriguing to me about My Last Teeth though is that it both was and wasn’t “fun”. It filled me with emotions I would not ask for: distress, shared loneliness, despair and a quiet sense of impending doom. And yet, I craved for more.
I hope Chrisy won’t get upset at me going here alone. She was trying to drag me to this movie theatre, the “Cinema Cellar”, for years at this point. And now, when she’s busy, I decide to go? Hard for me not to consider it a petty and honestly harmless act of revenge for ditching me and spending this afternoon with her favourite director. I don’t blame her for it and yet it feels good to do something on my own for once.
According to Christine, the reason why this theatre is so popular in the circles she orbits is because they show a lot of independent works here, including the worthy student ones. So, less “Henry the Cop: The Revenge” and more “The Green Rain in April That Is Drowning My Father’s Grave” (a real poster I saw on the way, fully sold out, sadly). The fact that it was located right next to the University of Arts’ dorm helps a great bit too. Christine lived there but I’ve yet to visit. Not that I like to get out much, but going to her room for once was a fun idea – the one, that she shot down real quick.
“I have three awful roommates with A LOT of dirty laundry everywhere.”
I told her that I did not mind a bit of trash here and there, the fact that she must have understood after so many visits to my flat, but Christine was adamant. I dropped the subject after that, yet in my heart her fierce resistance was as difficult to understand as it was to accept.
The advertisements are done and trailers for upcoming movies are now rolling on the screen. I’ve never heard of any of them and they all feel fresh, mysterious and exciting. A movie about some old guy and his dog are sailing on a boat but there is something in the water. A woman is hunted by an entire police force in the dark alleys that look eerily familiar. Some kind of magician/serial killer story? Boy, is there anything lighthearted they show at this place? As a response, the final trailer is for a movie about a man dying from cancer, promising excruciating medical details and the worst 5 hours of your life (a quote from the director, a certain Vasil Teremov). This offer is slightly enticing.
Please turn off your phones: the movie is about to start. My long dormant desire to visit this movie theater specifically, with a single screen and long breaks between showings, saved me trouble of choosing a film to watch. I clocked out from my job and went straight to the Cinema Cellar, about a fifteen minute walk. One wistful look at the pretty and shockingly daring green dress I’ve bought on an impulse a year ago and hasn’t worn outside once. No, no, in ugliness we find comfort. If you do not try you cannot fail. Bulky coat, simple jeans, the oldest greyest sweater without holes. It’s been… about 3 weeks since the last time I got out? Last time my keyboard broke and I tried to crawl out and fix it but turns out it’s cheaper to send it into a giant plastic heap just outside the city limit and buy a new one. Since then, the already rare greenery got swept out completely. The streets were wide and empty. Everywhere I looked I saw apartment buildings, tall and no doubt sprawling deep into the earth. The same as mine. They served as walls containing nothing but the slowly crawling line of cars, people coming home from work. It got dark very quickly and very early. My mom used to complain about it every day. She said it was never like this before. She said that this was the sign of the End Times.
When I finally arrived at a square and mostly grey one story building hosting the theater, the movie about to start happened to be “The Itch”. The poster, depicting a thin man, naked, curled on the ground, with his nails plunged deep into skin, promised “Never before seen a level of grotesque horror from Lubrava’s own superstar, Gregory Bergman”. No doubt true in my case, given that I have not seen a single movie from this guy. The air gets hot and I dump the coat on the empty seat next to mine.
I wonder how it will compare to My Last Teeth. I wonder if Chrisy has already seen this one. Maybe I should have called her? Nah. She’s busy, filming stuff with her favourite woman auteur right now. Having fun, making something out of herself. Let this experience be mine and mine alone.
Two hours pass. My inexperience punished me with inhuman cruelty: I did not think to visit a restroom before the movie started and felt an obligation to see every single second of some dude suffering from and weirdly enjoying some kind of horrible skin disease. The body horror element was definitely enhanced by my own bladder torturing me from the inside.
As credits begin to roll, I bolt out with a speed previously unimaginable. Finally reaching peace within a locked square of a toilet stall, my mind starts to wonder. The movie wasn’t… bad, but it wasn’t exactly “good” either. I try to come up with something more specific, but fail miserably. Inhuman white light pouring at me from the ceiling does not help.
As the emergency passes I realise that I’ve forgotten my coat back at my seat. I rush back in and find it untouched. Without paying attention to my surroundings, I go and grab it.
“Hey there. So… What did you think about the movie?”
Truth be told, the unexpected voice of a stranger addressed to me scared me more than any gross imagery I was bombarded with within the last two hours. I lower my eyes to try and locate its source. While I was dealing with the bodily troubles, the Big Hair Guy stealthily moved from the first row to the one right in front of me. My lips shake a little:
“Uh.. Ugh.. I…”
No idea when was the last time I spoke to anyone except my coworkers or Chrisy, let alone a complete stranger. The young man, pale, with the eyes in a shape of permanent sleepiness, looks at me with a mix of compassion and boredom and says:
“I thought it was fine. The bugs were cool. I generally enjoy bugs.”
I nod and try to find an answer:
“Yeah… The bugs were really gross. In a good way. Bet it would tickle to have them blow your skin, with all the hair and stuff.”
He returns my nod with a satisfaction of finding another enjoyer of insect based scares.
“To be honest, all and all this one is just a zombie mash-up monster of all his previous movies. Like… You’ve seen The Idea of Blood, right?”
Somewhere from the depth surfaces a memory of Christy’s voice saying this title in her mesmerizing broken cadence. No context found. Damn you, memory. I shake my head:
“No. This was the first movie of his that I saw.”
“Oh, you should watch The Idea of Blood for sure. It’s Bergman’s second movie, I think. Still feels really fresh and gruesome. He had so much more juice back then. Not that The Itch was a complete garbage but… You know.”
I don’t, not really, but also, I do? My soul agrees with his words despite an obvious lack of my own experience to base it on. Was there something in The Itch alone to signify it? Or am I so easily swayed? Hey, let’s hit him back with the only movie you have any feelings or opinions on so he knows you are not a complete dummy.
“So, uhm…”
“Jorn.” he introduces himself, feeling my sudden confusion. What kind of name is that?
“Right, Jorn. I’m Alina. Have… have you seen My Last Teeth? It’s a horror…”
“Oh!” Jorn immediately interrupts me. “Have I seen it?! I’ll give you better. I’m literally in that movie.”
“You are?!” I am both confused and starstruck on the spot. “But… Sorry, I don’t remember you in it. There are, like, two main actors and an old guy on the street in that one scene. Are you the old guy?”
A shade of slight shame catches up with him, dragging his eyes away from me and to suddenly an incredibly interesting cushion on the seat next to him.
“Well… You know the scene where Polina is hiding under the bed and The Father just stands next to it for like a minute? You see, Will had to travel out of the country, to Marderi, right after they shot all the material. Something to do with the family business, I think. Miss Zeller found out during the editing that there was an… uhm… issue with the prop during that scene. It required re-shooting. So…”
“So you played the legs!” I pronounce excitedly, way louder than intended.
“So I played the legs.”
He still seems embarrassed but is helped by my genuine excitement over the fact of meeting an actor from my favourite movie (I decided that My Last Teeth was, in fact, my favourite movie, somewhere in the middle of watching my second in a while film just now). The tension in the air dissipates.
“How did you even stumble across My Last Teeth without seeing a single Bergman’s? Are you a student at Unart? Don’t remember seeing you before.”
“Nah, I am actually a working adult.” I answer jokingly. No actual grown up would recognize my shameful lifestyle as ‘mature’, no matter how grey my hair would grow. “Truth be told, I am not a movie buff in the slightest. My friend showed it to me yesterday.”
“Your friend knows ball.” Jorn answers puzzlingly.
“She’s actually an acting student at the University of Arts, Christine Applebrangh. Do you know her?”
There is a small sign of recognition in the wrinkles on his forehead.
“Christine Appl… Oh, I think I know her. Pretty sure she dated my older brother for a few months. That was like, a year ago though. I still see her in the Lair and in school from time to time. Pretty sure she was in the last shoot with Miss Zeller.”
His expression sours quickly but he’s no match for my unbeatable ability to race into the blackest depth of despair. Blood rushes to my cheeks. Huh?
“Dated.. Your older brother?”
“Oh, yeah…” Jorn continues to exude deeper shades of misery, but he’s too far behind me to catch up. “Oli-J, he has a habit of, well, spending time around freshmen. Well, freshwomen to be more precise. He’s not even an Unarter, he’s a lawyer, but our dad’s name still carries some weight at the school.”
“And… Uh… What…”
There is a tsunami raging in my skull and no single fully formed thought has space to fully form. Red chairs, blackened screen, Jorn’s hair and elderly white walls blend one into another, way more liquid than they’re supposed to be. What does it mean? She never mentioned anything like that. No Oli Jeys or anyone else closer than a “regular friend”. Is this why she was late that one time? Why she’s not coming on certain days? Why I’m not allowed to go to her place? Is she hiding her boyfriends from me? Does she have one right now? What if she’s married?! What if she was married this whole time?!!
I do not know what to ask and so Jorn answers everything at the same time.
“They broke up like a year ago. To be honest, Oli-J is a pretty rotten guy, and I’m telling you that being his younger brother. I don’t really know Christine herself all that well but I’m sure she’s better off without him.”
This somehow does not help. I never asked Christine about her love life, probably out of fear. The fact that she had a… ugh… boyfriend at some point was not the worst (but it was, still, pretty bad). What makes me hollow is the feeling that I do not know her at all.
Jorn catches my absent gaze:
“You okay?”
“Absolutely” I answer unconvincingly. Jorn does not strike me as a deeply insightful person and yet even for him it must be clear that something went wrong just now behind my eyes.
“Do you like, have any plans? Meeting with this Christine or something?”
I’m not sure if that’s the thing I want the most or the least right now.
“No, no. Probably gonna go home, play some games, sleep some nightmares. The usual.”
“Wanna go to the Lair? See, I usually see movies with my friends but they ditched me for this party down there. Your Christine hangs out in the Lair quite often too. It’s going to be fun. Actually, Gregory Bergman himself is supposed to be there. With a bit of luck we can probably get to the place in time to meet him. Now that I think about it, it does feel pretty stupid. Instead of meeting the man himself I am here, watching a movie he made, taking mental notes…”
Emptiness inside me shifts and turns into unjustified anger, which is the best kind as long as you don’t actually hurt anyone but yourself. Fuck it. I already got out of the house, watched a movie, and talked to a stranger. I can do just about anything, on my own. I can even stop Jorn self-endulgent mumbling with my mighty voice full of resolve, only slightly trembling:
“Eh… Sure. Let’s go. Show me this Lair, whatever it is.”
As a response, Jorn hides his arm inside his massive hair garden. The way I said it suddenly made him reluctant. 
“...Alina, right? Have you ever been in the Underground before?”
“Brother, I practically live there.”

Jorn says that there are many paths that lead into the city below, most cross the Lair in one way or another. They vary greatly in how long and treacherous they are.
“I usually take the one at the dorm, but the party was supposed to start almost two hours ago and it’s unnecessarily long. If we take safety way too seriously we will be late. There should be a door in the Cinema Cellar itself but I’ve never taken it before…"
My initial adrenalin rush has subsided and now I barely respond to Jorn’s murmuring. We leave the hall but don’t come up to the employee behind the combined concession and ticket stand. Instead, Jorn leads me down the narrow hallway towards a barely noticeable door with an “Employees Only” card on it. The rooms that follow are dark and cluttered, full of film cans, computer parts and strange metallic carcases. I stumble over a rolled up poster for a movie about dancing clowns and it unfolds on the floor in all its yellow, torn-up glory. The clowns stare at me with a laughing pity. I realize that there is not a single human soul anywhere near us two. Jorn tells me something and I nod. Wrong answer – his tone grows more inquisitive and worried. This time, I shake my head. I refuse to hear the world around me, yet I can still feel Jorn’s intentions. His steps grow slower: he considers going back, walking me home, forgetting this whole Underground idea. I am not sure what unsettles him more, my behaviour or the increasing smell of toxic mold. Just as this idea matures and is moments away from hatching, we find The Right Door.
There is nothing special about it visually. It is wooden, black, with cracked paint in places, like any other door inside the theater. The strangely large and inappropriately white doorhandle does not fit the picture yet glaring lack of taste in design is our city’s tradition which is shared as a deepest held value between its buildings, advertisements and people. I wear my lack of ability to look good as a badge of patriotic pride and yet, this door was possessed with something more than horrid style. It was a border, an entrance to a one way street.
“Are you sure?” Jorn keeps his distance from the door. The question is addressed to himself but I answer nonetheless.
“Yeah. What is there to lose?”
I meant to say it with a tint of bravado but it comes off like I’m about to jump off a bridge. Barely audible cries of my brain to relax and not overstate things are drowned out by my Sunken Mood. I walk up to the door and grab the gaudy handle. It is cold, colder than cold, frozen solid and hurts me back like the deepest pit of hell. I turn it counter-clockwise and open the door.
There is nothing behind it. Not a room, not a closet, not even a wall. Just absolute darkness. I stare into it, trying to catch even a glimpse of a form or colour. I fail. Jorn carefully squeezes past me. His massive hair now sticks directly into my face, stinging my eyes and nose.
“The doorways are always like that. Just keep going forward.”
With these words, he disappears into nothingness.
Just a minute ago part of me yearned for loneliness. Yet now that I have it, the deep abandonment of a small barely lit backroom of a movie theater, dusty and devoid of any form of life, scares me. My teeth clash against each other slightly. There aren’t even any spiders. How is that possible? There is a pressure rising, the nothingness crushing me with its absent weight. I want to scream but instead, I run through the still opened door into the void.
It ends quickly. Before I can process my surroundings, my worn out sneakers hit the unexpected stone floor.
The space I find myself in does not make sense as something attached to the movie theater. There is no rhyme and reason connecting that dusty storage space with this… A well, I guess? The walls are all grey and made out of uneven stones. The shape of the room is a square, slightly bigger than the only room in my flat. There is no water in sight but a distinct smell of it. This space is of a different age. It must be older than my house or the Cinema Cellar, but not that much older. I touch the wall and it surprises me with a strange heat pouring out of it, comforting but unnerving. The ceiling goes up into the heavens and through the far away metal grading enormous full moon is shining down.
“Are you okay?”
Jorn is also here. He’s sitting on the floor, flipping through a big blue notebook. I turn around, but the entrance is gone: just the same pattern of massive stones, completely impassible. The way we came through is gone but every other wall bears a door each, each with a half-circle top and a slightly different shade of dark red. I raise my brows at my companion and he, no doubt fully aware at this point of my incompetence in the ways of the Underground, answers:
“Can’t go back. There is a consistent path out of the Lair but we have to get there first.”
I do not answer and sit down. The floor is also warm. My fear and worries subside. Where am I? The glowing body in the sky keeps taking over my attention. When was the last time I saw a moon this big? This full? A moon at all? My memory bank turns blank and I stare at the lunar sky like it’s the very first time. Is this what it’s like? It’s calm and it’s beautiful. For the first time since I moved to my current apartment, I regret not having a window.
Meanwhile, Jorn finally finds what he’s looking for and turns the book towards me. There is a wall of text that I, from my resting place across the room, cannot read. In the top right corner there is a square with a circle full of random blemishes.
“The spots are wrong.” I shake my head and point up. It’s a joke but Jorn takes me too seriously.
“Yeah, I know, but I think it shouldn’t matter. These Moon Rooms can’t be too far away from each other anyway. It says here to take a maroon door and go straight, then straight again, then turn left, then no turns up until the Lair. More simple than usual so that’s a relief."
“Is that a guidebook or something?”
“Yeah. Well. It’s based on a fictional novel by Lubravan’s writer from the 19th century. It was a much smaller town with a different name back then. Don’t ask me more. I just know how to check where to go. My friend Perner knows way too much about it. He’s one of the guys that ditched me. I’ll introduce you once we get to the Lair.”
There is a weariness in Jorn’s voice. Suddenly I realise that I do not relate, despite feeling completely depleted just mere minutes ago in the theater’s backrooms, on the other side of the abyss. Jorn gets up with a pitiful groan and looks around. Goes to every red door. Squints his eyes. After completing several circles, he finally turns to me:
“So… Do you know which of these is ‘maroon’, exactly?”
As a software tester, I only think about my colours in a hexadecimal sense. I know that maroon means dark red. All of these doors are dark red. Does that mean we can take any of them? Well, no, you see, they’re all clearly DIFFERENT kinds of dark red. Different how, you may ask? After staring at each in turn, in reverse turn, up close, from a distance – who knows! My eyes are seeing red everywhere now: walls are red, Jorn's sweaty forehead is red, even the moon is bloody red!
We give up and decide to put it to a vote. With our backs towards the entrance wall, we count – one, two, three! I point forward, Jorn points to the left. We agree on a sensible compromise and go through the door on the right.
The hallway ahead is dark. We agree to save the already dwindling charge on our phones and Jorn lights up a keychain flashlight. It barely helps but at least we can see where we step. The assistant is largely psychological – the way ahead is empty and narrow, made of the same greyish warm stones. Jorn walks ahead, slowly, too slowly. From time to time, he drops a joke or an observation, trivial, the buzzing of his growing stress. The air starts to feel too stale for my lungs as we reach an intersection, another corridor crossing ours at a right angle.
“We go straight,” he says. I cannot see Jorn’s face in the dark but there is no doubt it is hard for him to stay calm. I get a bit nervous too but the feeling of an adventure carries my spirit forward.
The hallway continues and silence grows around us, slowly but inevitably. Its cancerous cells dominate every bit of air. The monotony of walking dislodges my mind and makes it wonder. Who built this? For what purpose? I recall stories from my childhood, about a reclusive order of monks from our Church, going deep underground to think their thoughts about God in peace, away from prosecution, never to be seen again. Has Chrisy ever been here? With her boyfriend? What happens if I die here? Will my body be found? Would I want my body to be found here? Anywhere?
“Oh fuck.”
It’s just two words and yet they say so much. The already palpable feeling of growing fear radiating from Jorn jumps to eleven. He stops dead in his tracks.
“What’s wrong?” I ask and look over his shoulder. We’ve hit a wall. There is a right turn and a left turn curving away from this point.
“This… this is wrong. We were supposed to go straight twice and then turn left.”
Jorn hides his arms into the protective cocoon of his haircut once more, still facing away from me.
“We’ve probably just missed a junction.” I touch him on the shoulder. Jorn flinches and turns around. In the narrow cone of the keychain flashlight, his face is dead white. I try to reason: “Let’s just go back and…”
“No, no, we will not go back. There is no ‘back’ in the Underground, the hallway would never end or end somewhere you would not want to end up.” His entire body is shaking now. The ancient instincts finally kick in: if you see another fellow human in a state of panic, there is probably a hungry pack of wolves just around the corner. Be very afraid. The wave of fear starts at my chest and washes slowly towards my face.
What exactly am I doing here? There was a layer of confidence built out of assertion of experience in my head, as Jorn described descent through this Underground as something mundane. This layer is melting as we stand surrounded by ancient walls, manifesting as a sweat pouring down my companion’s face. He knows more than I do and that knowledge petrifies him, so it is up to me to get us moving:
“We were supposed to turn left, correct? If it is as you say and we can’t go back and check, the only thing we can do is to assume that we’ve missed one crossway.”
Jorn nods, automatically, not convinced but without a counter-argument and so we turn left. I have to push his hunched back, which brings frustration. I welcome it. Jorn's tardiness overshadows my fear, the stale air that refuses to enter my lungs, the stones that close on me with every step, the slight rumbling that makes them shiver, that makes me shiver from the feeling that something truly massive and horrifyingly alive is shifting and slithering just on the other side. I imagine things, surely, yet in the emptiness of a tunnel buried deep in the cold and dead ground imagination becomes much more than just a fancy. It pours out of my body, eyes catching jerking movements in the void, ears hearing scratches on the stone, fingers tracing phantom liquids on the walls. I bite my lips and they feel foreign.
“We chose the wrong door.” Jorn says pitifully. I don’t respond.
The corridor curves right more and more aggressively. It goes up for a bit only to plunge down, causing us to tumble. My heart hearts at the thought that this may be the last thing I ever see. My days are filled with nothing and I’m afraid of losing something I do not have, that I had every chance to try and get. If only…
There is a pure black door without a handle, right in front of us. We’ve reached the end of the path and the beginning of something else.
“Did we make it?” I ask.
“Mmhm.” Jorn does not sound happy. I see the muscles on his neck get tense and without saying anything else, he pushes the door forward.
It opens into a large room and the contrast with the stone tube we just crawled through is jarring. The space before us is massive, wide, long and seems to be made entirely out of reddish wood. The room is disturbingly bright, lit dazzlingly by countless candelabras and large candles, reflected in countless mirrors on the walls and the ceiling. There is a shiny brassy metal spread all over the place: it adorns every mirror, sparkled in bits as knives and forks on the otherwise empty circular tables that appear to grow out of the floor. In seemingly random places there are strange, human-shaped statues made of glass, radiating so much light it’s impossible to discern their details. The only interior elements not screaming for sunglasses are the paintings. They vary in sizes and shapes, but the details were hard for me to see in the surrounding luminous cacophony.
Through an empty doorframe on the opposite side I can see another room, very similar to the one we’ve found ourselves in, and another one, and another, and another, going and going forward. Far in the distance I could barely notice where it all ends: a big green door, unfittingly modern, with an “Exit” sign on top.
Jorn is stuck. He does not walk in, he does not move his head and as I squeeze myself past him I notice that he does not blink.
“Watch the green door!” he yells and I feel obligated to follow his commandment. The exit is still there if obscured by all the glow and wooden furniture in the way. I blink - and there is a slight shift in the walls. Nausea arrives, uninvited. It’s hard to focus in the blinding light.
Jorn pushes me to the side and starts to slowly walk forward:
“Keep your eyes on the green door if you want to live.”
There is a deadly determination in his voice that was missing in the tunnels. His fear is flipped, from terrifying uncertainty to well understood danger. This knowledge, unavailable to me, strains Jorn but also keeps him focused. I postpone any questions and follow.
Keeping the line of sight on our goal as we go proves very difficult. The light grows more aggressive with every breath we draw, assailing our eyeballs from every possible angle through oddly and no doubt maliciously placed mirrors. The glass statues along our path explode into blinding rainbows. As we cross the first room, the paintings become easier to see and harder to ignore. What is depicted varies: beautiful naked women with bloodied weapons in their arms; a child, cut from top to bottom and crucified upside down on a crooked and burnt cross; a group of humanoid figures in dark robes with various liquids pouring down from inside of their clothes on the grey earth below; a man with a head of a dog, consuming a mangled corpse. There is only one truly uniting thing between these: the eyes. The woman, the dogman, even the darkness of robes and especially the dead kid, the horrible sacrilege depicted in paint – all of them have a pair of eyes, open widely, looking directly into mine, no matter how fast I rush past them.
From these descriptions you may understand that I did not follow Jorn’s instructions faithfully. I look away. It is very hard not to. The walls between rooms keep shifting, covering the door at the end with their bloated wooden bodies. As we pass through, new paintings and new statues reveal themselves. Crooked trees, ruins drenched in red mist, bloodstain on a white floor. Eyes, eyes, eyes on every surface. I try to ignore them, to focus on the way out. I fail.
There are several thoughts that race through my head when Jorn stumbles on a sudden nail sticking out of the floor of room number 3.
Come on, that was really cheap.
I do not know if there is a graceful way to fall flat on your face but that was definitely not it.
I hope he is fine.
The last one involves me, involuntarily, looking down at his body plastered across a, possibly, maroon floor. Away from the door.
“Are you alright?” I ask and sit down next to him. Jorn makes a painful sound and I realise that it’s not a ‘I hurt my ankle’ groan but ‘Oh fuck she is not looking at the door’ one. I try to rectify it immediately - and fail.
There is no door.
The room we’re in still ends and another one still begins, but it is shifted: you can only see the very left part of the next quarters. I walk towards room 4 and look into it: similar story. The only part of room 5 that is visible is the right wall. Previously fully see-through space is now obstructed. Logically speaking, there is nothing catastrophic about it, right?
Deep in my soul I know that I’m wrong.
Jorn sits up. His head is buried in his jeans, with hands as a cover on top. Hidden and curled. He does not respond at my prodding with anything other than:
“We’re so fucked. We’re so fucked.”
Should I just go forward? It may come to that but something tells me the exit is now out of reach and if I do so, the only other person sharing this trouble with me may become too. The urgency feels broken and I inspect my surroundings. The room is surprisingly warm. Is it because of all these candles? Should we burn it down? I imagine being buried under the crushing weight of earth above us and gulp.
“Does your book say something about this room?” I ask Jorn. Instead of an answer, he flips through it, finds the right page and tosses the notebook towards me. After doing so, he returns to his mournful duty of sobbing and being of little help otherwise.
The pages are yellow and worn out. Jorn is likely not the first or second owner of this thing. The urge to read through the whole thing rises inside of me. We do not seem to be in immediate danger after all. My fingers trace the very first page then run over the entire volume of unknown secrets. I resist the call and focus on the “The Room of Murdering Brightness” entry. Who chose this name? It’s too blunt for my taste and I regret not having a pencil to fix it to “Quarters of the Sinful Light” or something along these lines. Less descriptive and clear, I admit, but closer to its essence in spirit, at least to my eye.
Alina, can you please concentrate? Even without some ungodly monsters jumping on you we both know from experience that this rumbling within yourself, this rising demand for the taste of cheap noodles will not disappear on its own. And when was the last time you drank anything?
Like on command, I feel soreness in my throat. I focus on the text. The entry is  written in multiple different handwritings and inks.

The Room of Murdering Brightness.
The redwood room with a lot of light sources and creepy paintings.
Keep your eyes on the Exit! Do not lose the line of sight at any cost! Ignore the paintings. If lost, leave your testimony written down on your body so the next divers can retrieve it. There are reports of individuals previously left stranded in The Room of Murdering Brightness re-appearing in The Underground but given their pre-existing animosity towards other divers no information on their escape is available.
For research:
Example of paintings observed - dragon-like creatures chewing through a coastal city full of people, blood pours from the cracks in concrete.
If cutlery from this room is taken out, it disappears the moment it is not observed. Not enough data to determine which material it's made of.

I check out the paintings in the room. No sign of dragons or anything else of that epic scale. Instead, I have: another naked woman, piercing herself with a sword; some kind of mass of flesh smothered across a wooden circle, an orange eye painted dead in the middle; a goat's chopped off head smiling at me. The images scare me, but there is something else. I shake my head but one word keeps ringing in it: Truth. These paintings are faithful to What Is in a way no words can ever be, at least not the ones I’ve met so far. This last idea feels like a challenge.
The sharp utensils on the tables feel insulting in their insinuation. I pass them by and kneel in front of one of the glass statues. It is human in shape and size, and is unbearably shiny. In the figure’s reflective face I see my own. Everything else: Jorn, paintings, pointed knives, all are blurry and barely visible. Right before my eyes, the glass moves and curves a little. Every freckle, early wrinkles and acne spot I tried to hide from Chrisy with a massive layer of foundation lights up. My own face horrifies me but the revealing light does not stop there. It focuses on my eyes and I see deep in them something awful. 
An empty wasteland.
I want to blink, to reject this vision. I cannot. Next comes the desire to lash out. Breaking this glass figure would be so easy. It seems very fragile, its accusations would shatter across the red floor and be forever silent. My arms rise.
No.
At first it comes intuitively, a feeling, not a thought. This sandless desert I see reflected inside me, it’s true and it is upsetting, but it does not feel final. I grab statues' pointy shoulders. The sudden raging heat hurts my palms but I keep on it, keep looking deeper and deeper until suddenly, my vision flashes and blurs. I blink, as hard as I can. It does not help until a sudden horrible headache clears my eyes. My reflection still stares back from the face of the mirror figure, as unpleasant to me as it ever was. What changed is that now there is a shaded green door, old and covered with moss, built into the wall right behind my head.
“Jorn?” I yell quietly, eyes still locked on the reflection.
“What?” he lifts his head with desperation and instantly notices the door. “What the fuck? What did you do?”
“No idea. Can you open it?”
Jorn gets up and walks towards the green door, faster and faster, stumbling on his way. He turns the handle and pushes on it. Through the now open doorway we’re greeted by a big dark closet, with the most prominent item being a cracked and dirty ‘Cinema Cellar’ sign. There is a moan of relief that comes from Jorn that would be too embarrassing for any other situation.
“I think… I think we’re fine. Oh god. Oh my fucking god.” he cries out. “You can stop looking, I’ve got it. Please, let’s just get the fuck out of here.”
I give my ugliness one final look of hope. She responds in kind. I close my eyes, take a deep breath, turn around – and bolt through the opened green door, likely breaking a few Olympic records on the way. We both stumble and cough from the unexpected dust of old storage space in our lungs and push on the only other door inside, just to fall out into the main hall of the very same movie theater we started in, right by the visibly annoyed cashier standing by the doors.
“We’re closing.”
I look into the black sky outside and smile as I have not done in years.

We keep walking and keep talking. Now that the danger has passed, Jorn regained his admittedly limited spirit and started to shower me with praise and questions. The conversation is pleasant but I did not retain any of it. There was a beauty in the air that I did not notice before. The gravely shapes of apartment buildings felt meaningful. The office towers blasted soft lunar light around but no matter how hard I tried to find it, the moon itself avoided my eyes. So be it.
As our energies, suddenly heightened by daring escape, ran out, we exchanged phone numbers and waved each other goodbye. The earlier soulcrushing revelations about Christine feel distant and muted. As I walk home through the empty streets, I get my phone out. There is a missing call from the Miss Disaster herself but that can wait until tomorrow. My fingers go to the Notes app instead and start typing on their own:
“Idea for a (short?) story: God and Angels exist but they’re really monstrous and all hate this one girl specifically.” 


Tape 3. 03/10.
[The next tape’s label is deeply contaminated with ink. Several dates on it are crossed out with increasing levels of violent scratching. 03/10 is the only one standing unharmed, tucked in the top-right corner.]
The sky beyond my window gets suspiciously quiet, preparing to make a jump on me with sunlight. I still need to sleep, sadly, but this night needs to be remembered. However, to get here, I need to push through the last few days. These were rough. This entry covers them all, as my previous attempts to record anything coherent were futile. I’ve had a lucky break today so let’s hope this one will turn out better.
The initial spark I felt after returning from the forest did not last long. I woke up late, at about… 6am, I think. Edited the diary tape, as I usually do, to keep the continuity flowing past the dreamless night. Afterwards, I tried to work on the script. The… name, yes, I needed a name. At least, a temporary one. Until you nail a label on something it does not exist. I re-watched the footage. I thought it was objectively good. A contrast of colours, the composition holding viewer’s attention, even the depth of field worked out how I wanted despite the lack of light. And yet, I had nothing. No name, no feeling, no inspiration. I forced my hand to write something and ended up with the current title. “Surrounded”. Because the main character is surrounded by trees. Amazing show of creativity Venera. Writing it on the top of an empty page made me want to throw up. So I did. 
My stomach felt better afterwards but not the rest of me. The chair by my workstation grew tiny spikes in unexpected places. All I could think of while sitting in it was how much my back itched, how the tips of individual hairs swinging from my head infuriatingly and relentlessly poked at my left cheek. I tried to tie it up but every time a few hairs escaped and these fugitives continued their crime spree. It was impossible. Hours went by. There was still that one single word on the page. The clouds outside turned grey from black and even accounting for my prodigal privileges to skip the less important classes, it was time to go to the University.
Looking back, going there was an obvious mistake, the one I should have spotted and avoided. I was intensely irritated and unable to focus on the lectures, which is bad enough. People kept trying to talk to me, buzzing around, asking what was wrong. And then… then I’ve created a scene and not the kind I wanted to. My memory is hazy on how it started and the vile sounds coming from the tape recorder ring false. I try, against the pain and embarrassment, to recall the details, but when the fog clears I’m already standing in the middle of a crowded hallway, sweating and screaming at Lisa Vont.
“How fucking dare you?! Who do you think you are?! Iysh wlfcshi krsh…”
[Venera’s voice is edited in and is hardly recognizable when compared to the rest of the tape. The recording gets noisier with every word she screams out until it collapses into static.]
I have an entire bag of worthless excuses but I will not commit them to tape. I already tried that on the day it happened. It was full of shit. Just absolute…
[Her speech becomes incoherent and you no longer understand what she’s saying. This goes on for a whole minute before she resurfaces.]
The gloves. It started with the fucking gloves, again, and spiraled on and on. I called Lisa “a posh talentless bitch” with “moped hair colour of shit”. My heart was about to burst through my chest. At the moment it felt like a struggle for survival, a bloody battle. After listening to that day’s recording, it’s clear that she said almost nothing and just sobbed through the harassment storm I unleashed.
Maria Andreevna interrupted this calamity and dragged me into her office. It was small, too small for an esteemed professor at Unart, but she always told me that she, annoyingly, did not mind that. Unlike some other teachers, she never got her time of day as an author and began to teach almost immediately after graduating. Most people looked down on her for that and thought it would be too late for her to start being an actual artist at the age of 60. These people include me and I can’t help it. She was always dear to me as a person though. Maria Andreevna was kind and open, unlike most of the successful people in my life.
I remember her face on that day very well. The eyes behind her round thick glasses were full of worry, jumping around nervously, while her lips were pressed so hard they became thin and barely visible.
[There is a new voice. Warm, elderly, patient through effort.]
“Venera, please, talk to me. What happened?”
“Look, it’s fine. I’m just in a bit of a block and affected by it. Nothing new.”
My answer did not satisfy her. I wanted to leave that stuffy grey room full of books no one would ever open, to run away and be alone, but the tension in the air made it clear that I was not allowed to, so I stayed. 
I thought Maria Andreevna belonged to me since day one, when I, still a little high school girl, confused and afraid, came to the University for the very first time. I was trying to figure out if I should apply or follow my parents wishes and become a lawyer. That idea sounds horrifying all these years later but at the time was a scarily real possibility. So, Maria Andreevna was sitting at the Admissions Committee of Unart. I was not planning to talk, just to check things out, see how my heart felt. She was in the consultation booth. I did not plan to say much but once I started and looked into the wise dark eyes of hers, all my bubbling worries poured out. She made green tea and spoke to me for two whole hours. I ended up showing her on my phone the silly stuff I’ve made with my friends. Marina Andreevna said that it was very good, that I should keep going. In fact, it wasn’t good and I learned not to trust her artistic opinions very quickly but she set me on a road to become who I am today.
On the day of my one-sided screaming match though, the chilling realisation hit me. Maria Andreevna did not just care for me. She also cared for Lisa, another student of hers, just as much and what I did made her angry. Looking back it feels silly but at the time it felt deeply betrayed.
“Darling, please, control yourself. If you need a timeout from school, I can arrange that. You know what? Consider yourself on a sick leave. Don’t show up here, at least for the next week. Get a hot bath, or maybe a massage.”
I nodded through her chirping, absently. Seeing no reaction, Maria put on a serious expression and looked me in the eyes.
“I know life has not been easy for you lately. With Willam abroad and… the rest.”  she said, choosing words carefully, “You worked so hard and so much already. Please, have a break from everything and don’t take it out on fellow students.” Her eyes darted down and an awkward silence hung over us. She was, obviously, unsure how to breach the next subject but in the end decided to be direct. “...what should I do with the gloves? Lisa passed them on to me. I know how you feel, how break-up feels. If you don’t want them just tell me and I’ll safekeep them for you.”
I usually could predict anything Maria Andreevna could possibly say at any given moment, which is why that question stunned me. What she said did not make any sense. My mentor held out her hands and there was nothing in them. I hunched over and looked more closely. Under examination, her palms felt… Blurry is the best way I can describe it. Smothered and oddly smooth. My headache spiked and it gets worse right now as I try to remember it. I put down my hand over hers and felt nothing. Maria Andreevna’s palms felt fuzzy and plastic.
She clearly thought the gloves were there but I couldn’t see them, or touch them, or even smell them, and I know how they smell - like the ice rink last winter, we were there for hours and Polina fell on her butt constantly because she never learned how skate but she was laughing and so did I, hovering my mouth with these very gloves, the wool and something burnt and her ingrained sweat and that smell was not there, these god damn gloves were not there. And yet, Maria Andreevna would not tease, me or anyone, of all the people she would never… If anything, she looked deeply concerned and it was that pitiful expression on her face that made me truly scared.
[Venera stays silent for several seconds. When her voice comes back, it sounds wet and uncharacteristically high-pitched.]
…there is something seriously wrong with me. Not just in terms of my personality. [Weak laughter ripples through the air] With my body. I think I am ill. Or just very tired although in that case it’s a level of exhaustion previously unknown to me. After I’ve had a few days to calm down, here are my observations:
I cannot perceive certain things: visually or otherwise. The gloves are obvious at this point, but now every lost remote, every pair of socks that disappeared into thin air is a suspect. I do not know for how long it has been happening. We humans see what we want to see after all, and perhaps I just got way too picky. I called the private clinic I go to after coming home and arranged an appointment there.
What happened with Lisa was, clearly, a long running misunderstanding. Regardless if she acted out of pure concern or to get a favourable treatment out of me, what I did was wrong if for understandable reasons. Concerns of guilty variety are generally useless, but this time the shame would not disappear when I commanded it to.
The next morning, on the first day of October, came too early. There was an entire hour left before my alarm with a scream recording from ‘The Idea of Blood’ would go off. My blanked lay cramped on the floor and the cold of approaching winter made me shiver. I skipped classes, just as Maria Andreevna asked me to, and went back to the script. What if that traumatic experience was exactly what I needed to move from the dead point? Inspiration from misery is a well known trope. The answer was a resounding no. In fact, my writer’s block got even worse. I wrote sentences, re-read them just to cross them over in disgust. Soon, the whole page below the accursed “Surrounded” became an ocean of ink, a jungle of mistakes with a deeply rooted bog underneath. When I looked outside it was pitch black already. Just a day before it the full moon shone on me and Christine but now there was not a speck of light coming down from the sky.
My house is three bedrooms wide and three stories tall, including the basement. It was the place of residence of my parents before they retired away from us across the ocean. Despite being its sole occupant for eight and a half months since Will took off to his business adventures abroad, me and the house managed to slowly grow apart during that period. The walls felt grey and alien. Random creaks downstairs sounded like old curses. My vision must have grown weary from tiny tears of fatigue as my upstairs room became more and more blurry. I could not get out of my head the thought that there may be many more items that my brain decided to no longer consider. I did not want to stay in my bedroom for days and grind myself into nothingness over an empty page.
That evening, I arranged a few dates. The night was hard, full of empty restless dreams.
Then, yesterday, October the 2nd. I ditched the college once again and toiled around the empty streets. Usually, I prefer to spend most of my time outside behind the safe metal frame of my car, but instead of wasting gas driving around I decided to do something I have not done in years – be a Lubravan’s pedestrian and see the sights. The embankment, or rather, the former embankment, looked apocalyptic. Blackened and cracked ground beneath a fantom, long gone river looked hazardous. Every sound was buried behind the raging howling of cold winds, raging below the bridge. The old movies featuring Lubrava the River, after which the city itself was called, presented at least one bird in the vicinity of water: usually a duck or a seagull, but swans, geese and cormorants were not a rarity. During my lonely visit to the old Karmal’s Bridge that was living its last decades, the only life, winged or otherwise, was a small crow trying to pick something off the soil. I watched it struggle for a few minutes before drifting off.
The city center was its most agreeable part and also unquestionably the most oppressing. This was the last part of the Lubrava’s overground structure where taste and architectural beauty were a consideration. Too bad said taste was the most base and brutal, full of proud declarations of violence and ignorance. The only time I saw another pedestrian were men with automatic rifles guarding the city hall. One of them noticed me and pointed the barrel in my direction. He was not planning to shoot, but the message was clear. I did not come any closer.
Finally, the time for my meeting with Lisa came up. Usually, I’d arrange something of this sort in the Lair or another location in the Underground, but Lisa was not the kind of girl you’d take to an interesting place. Over awkward and short text messages we’ve settled on a Saint’s Cross Cafe. Small, charming in a still visible past and almost clean, with only three or four tables, empty at the time I was there. It smelled like nothing. Named after the street named after the school named after the church, long burned, killed, violently and with intent. The food was comfortably mediocre.
Lisa arrived 15 minutes late, which I did not mind. Compared to my simple get up, she was dressed up well: long flowing white sundress with a floral pattern, with her brown hair braided in several complicated patterns, clearly done by a professional. I did not care much for her, romantically speaking. Not that Lisa was unattractive to the eye, she was an aspiring actress after all, with an oil pumping family business as a sponsor to her beauty, but whatever Lisa had going on the face of it was in my eyes negated by her offensively mundane personality. I nodded to the seat next to me and she sat down, nervous, unsure of what to expect.
I tried to apologise. I truly did, but the words simply refused to leave my mouth and so we just sat there, silently, while I slowly pierced the remains of my Greek salad with my fork. The situation felt both humiliating and insurmountable and so my instincts pulled me around the issue:
“Do you want to be in my next project?”
This is not what Lisa expected to hear, nor what I expected to say. Now, I understand that it’s a very strange thing to ask someone whom you insulted just a few days prior. It was the best my half-working brain got at that moment.
“Not what I expected to hear.” There was a confused displeasure on Lisa’s face. She did not know how to react and so reacted in the usual way. I was spared from that side of her until now, but my half-admitted guilt certainly shaken down my place on the totem pole.
“Yes, I know, me too.”
I resumed my assaults on the salad and let Lisa stew in her conflicting feelings. When there was almost no greenery to attack left, she finally concluded her mental calculations.
“Can you tell me more about it?”
“It’s called ‘Surrounded’. A new horror film. I’m writing the script right now but I have an outline and a role that would be perfect for you.”
Of course, I was making stuff up, but after all, doing so is my entire occupation.
“Okay, you win. What’s next?”
We made some half-baked plans and split up soon after. Despite the awkwardness, I felt much better, with the stone of guilt off my chest. 
And so, this is how I got to today – the day I spent with Christine. Now that’s a woman I can take anywhere. We met at noon on the ground floor of the dormitory. I was lucky enough to avoid living there and this latest visit cemented my appreciation. The building was not just old but actively rotting. Through crumbling paint on the walls I saw pieces of rusted metal and dusty grey flesh of its insides. There was a persistent smell of sweat and ammonia.
The doors of the only elevator in the building opened with a screech and Christine stepped out of its darkness. She was dressed casually, with a plain yet elegant white blouse and a long light blue skirt. Despite the simplicity it felt magnificent, amplified by her sly smile. Am I too far gone by now? Perhaps.
The stated cause for our meeting today was a collaboration on the film ideas which would be a desired outcome, even if I’ve had other, more personal motives in mind. I shared the light version of my difficulties with writing over the phone and Christine enthusiastically offered her help, while bashfully warning me that she’s not a trained or experienced writer.
We took the Dormitory’s Passageway to get to the Lair - a simple basement staircase hidden in one of many nooks of the dorm's courtyard, with the amount of traffic going through it that an uninitiated person would find suspicious. Not that there would be too many of these around: most Unart students learn of the Underground ways sooner or later, to the point that avoiding such knowledge would require an effort of its own. The path to the Lair from there is simple and well-troded, even boring. Some people think that the true Underground does not begin until there is a grave danger in the air and I find their argument compelling, but what these hotshots are usually missing is the fact that you may very well perish even in the most mundane passage below the surface.
It was not the case for us that day though and the road to the Lair was straightforward. Keep to your left or to your right, goes the memo, it does not matter which but you must stick to it. Brick laid catacombs around us teemed with life here and there. People sitting in the shadows of barely lit alcoves on the side threw hungry glances at us. I felt recognized and comfortable.
The Lair was as it always was – sprawling and dim yet meticulously lightened at the very corner. The people running it as a club knew that leaving even the tiniest corner in the pure dark is an invitation for things inappropriate for most of the guests. Despite being manmade from forever crumbling yet undeniably immortal red bricks, the Lair was closer to a cavern than a pub, sprawling into a thousands of smaller offshoots away from the center, where the bar stood, the holy altar of alcohol and snacks. The upper and more civil level was divided, informally and so very strictly, between hidden yet close to the exit celebrity lounges, common areas for common people and small and especially soundproof rooms for lovers and co-conspirators. The great and contained acoustic inside was either a product of unholy magic or hard and long labour. Likely both. The staff, each a bartender, server and a bouncer in one, was small, about four people, give or take, and spent most of their time playing cards with each other. The visible part of the Lair was half-full with students, disheveled creatives, not yet hatched or already long forgotten, shady figures in the corners and local lunatics spread all around in an equal measure.
I did not want us to be disturbed and after grabbing a red wine bottle and two glasses at the counter we went to one of the “booths”, a tiny room with an antique and scratched wooden table, two chairs and a dangerously massive metal candelabra hanging right over our heads.
“Do you visit this place often?” I ask Christine while fighting with the cork.
“From time to time,” she answers with a strange expression I have trouble deciphering, “Usually with my classmates from acting, especially if some famous director shows up.”
“Well, you’re in luck then.” I immediately got embarrassed after saying that but tried to hide it. This boastful side of me feels new and is not exactly a welcomed addition. She laughed, louder than the joke deserved, but without a hint of falsehood. The girl is either genuine to a fault or an incredibly skilled deceiver. I’ll believe in the former for now, simply because I want to.
“That is so true. I still can’t believe I get to talk to The Venera Zeller like that.”
“Oh, stop it you.” I was positively flustered but this reverence had a bitter aftertaste. She treated me like an icon, on a pedestal. Watch from a distance, do not touch. “First of all, from now on, you call me Venera and nothing more official. Less - we can discuss, but I don’t want to be ‘miss’ed from now on.”
“As you wish… Venera.” she smiled at me cunningly and my heart started to ache once more.
“Right. Okay. The script.”
We threw around some ideas. It was pleasant but not exactly productive. My thoughts were too preoccupied with the magical shape of Christine’s neckline when she looked to the side deep in thoughts and I failed to produce anything of worth. Her output, while plentiful, was either in support of my own terrible ideas, or repackaging concepts and scenes from Guts of the Snow Alley, or My Final Teeth, or some of my earlier films.
“And maybe the final scene can be my hand writing a letter in blood on the forest floor for whomever finds my body…”
“So like in ‘The Canvas of Valerie’? I think we need something fresher. Never done before, at least not by me.”
The thought of retreading the exact same ground felt repulsing. I struggled to even remember why I found these stories worth making in the first place. Maybe these were Polina’s ideas? Surely, she wasn’t as eager to please back then as Christine is right now. Definitely was not at the end of it all. I tried to remember how me and Polina met, our first conversations. It was all a blur, a bunch of shapeless silhouettes and colours. Anything before the fights, the collapse, felt fake, made up, incomprehensible. Was Polina younger than Christine when I met her? Fairer? Funnier?
I still cannot recall any of that.
The wine has run out by this point but neither of us seemed to be drunk. At my soft rebuttal her eyes shifted off of me for the first time since we sat down and to the small and battered with time pink and white plastic watch on her arm. Words jumped out of her mouth before she could stop them:
“Oh shit.”
I raised my eyebrows:
“What’s wrong?”
“Nothing. Can you wait for me here? I’ll be right back.”
Without any further explanations, Christine got up and practically ran out through the long corridor leading back to the main hall of the Lair. I guess I could have stayed right there, thought of other ideas for the script, wondered what caused her to leave in a hurry. However, doing so never crossed my mind back then. As soon as I was out of Christine’s view, I got up and followed her trail.
The sky blue skirt vigorously contrasted with the dominating red and brown colours of the club and it was not hard to keep an eye on my fugitive. She went straight to one of the wells at the back of the bar area, down the spiral ladder into the Second, the lower parts of the Lair where good girls should not dwell. Polina refused to even entertain spending time there, which is why I was so surprised seeing Christine jump there, seemingly without a second thought. I myself was not fond of its inhabitants but mingling with these kinds of people is, sometimes, a necessity in the constantly underfunded world of making art.
The Second still followed the rules of avoiding complete darkness but seems to have invented an entirely new type of candle that technically lights a wide area without allowing you to actually see anything. Thankfully, the den of creeps and criminals was almost empty on a weekend and tracing the only moving object was not difficult even for my troubled eyes. The shape of Christine kept her light jog up and so did I, up until I got to one of the rooms tucked on the right side of the common hall. It was similar to the one we’ve spent our time in, except  much darker, bigger and deeply foul. The shapes of furniture inside were sticking from the ground like broken bones, thrown around and thrashed. There was a quiet assortment of laughter coming out, the kind that promised only trouble of the worst kind.
 An uneven voice full of malice pierced out as I hid in a small hole by the entrance.
“You’re fucking late.” A man, neither young nor old. He sounded familiar but I failed to recognize the bastard.
[Scared by the sudden voice of That Man, you jump away from the recorder. It keeps spewing out its poison.]
“I was busy.” Christine responds. Her voice is cold and drained of any warmths or sympathy I’m used to. She sounds stressed and gravely tired.
“She was busy!” A new, unfamiliar man shrieks out. His voice appeared between Christine and the exit I’m hiding by. My blood turned ice and then slowly started to boil.
The first man, clearly the leader, spoke up again and an image without a name started to crawl out of my memory: tasteless suit, neat hairstyle, predatory smile.
“Do you have the money? Or are we back to the alternatives?”
[You want the pain to stop but pressing Pause would just make this obscene moment an eternity.]
Raging howls capture my ears, a cruel laughter of violence.
“I have your fucking money.” To my surprise, I felt no trace of fear from her words.
Then, there were steps, rapid rustling of paper and plastic and more steps. The leader’s voice rings loudly over the walls:
“All right. Until the next time babe.”
There was no response. Next moment, Christine rushed out past my hiding spot, as the room exploded into a cavalcade of disturbing laughter and crackling whispers.
I swam in these circles long enough to have an idea what was that all about. It’s a pity, but not something I cannot overcome. Right now, she’s still my guiding star, shining in the pitch-black and lonely sky. Perhaps, if she can lead me out of the desert, I can save her from this darkness too, even if the shadow behind her eyes blossoms in the colour of certain doom.
When I came back to our table she was already there, of course. I made up a lie about going to the bathroom and grabbing another wine bottle – well, the last part was not a lie. I needed more help to get through the day and, in all likelihood, so did Christine. A brilliant idea came to me at that moment:
“Let’s ditch this dump. I want to show you a special place of mine”
It used to be ‘our’ special place, but when you throw away the keys to someone’s home, you give up the rights to all your other shared spots of significance.
She slowly nodded in response and we took off, leaving the Lair behind. I thought I had the road there memorized to the last step but stumbled on the very first crossroads and was forced to consult with the guidebook. It did not help that I had to focus half of my attention on thawing out my sulking companion. The encounter I’ve witnessed turned her greyed out and dimmed, but after unearthing all the bad jokes and embarrassing anecdotes I used to tell from the Archive of Easier Times, Christine’s mood became more pleasant.
“So we film the Guts of the Snow Alley, and as you must know there is a small but noticeable cameo of Gregory Bergman in it. I was not exactly a household name back then but he saw the films that I put out at the Cellar and was, and I quite, ‘quite impressed’. After being prodded by, well, other people, many many times, I got enough courage to ask Gregory if he would be gracious enough to do a small scene in my next project. He loves doing these, just stumbling around other people's sets. And so, Gregory agreed on the spot, no questions asked.
On the day of the shoot, he showed up and all of the sudden started to boss around the camera man, ordered people to move the lights, make changes to the set. ‘Oh, why what’s with these stupid apples?’ Everyone was so confused! I did not know what to do. I used to be quite timid, if you can believe that, and you it’s tough to start an argument with your idol as practically nobody. And then…  Then Polina blew up at him. ‘This is Venera’s movie, you old ass! Who do you think you are?’ That’s what she said! Imagine asking one of the most respected Lubrava’s directors that, to his face. I expected him to storm out from the set but Gregory just silently sat back in his chair. He even apologized to me afterwards. ‘Sorry dear, force of habit.’ You have to admire his drive and creative vision though. He taught me so much.”
[Throughout Venera’s voice you can hear laughter, Christine’s laughter, first quiet and brief, loud and lively by the end. And rewind the tape and play this part again, and again.]
We got to the final stretch of the road: tall hallways painted bright white with a green line near the floor. My hand glided along the wall full of microscopic thorns as we pushed forward, gaining a thick chalky coating on my fingers but leaving no trace behind. Compared to the Lair this path felt modern, almost comprehensible. A government building of a long gone regime, a century old hospital or well kept backrooms, for staff use only.  Thin metallic doors sprawled on the walls, grew in every dark nook and cranny, opening to other forgettable corridors in between the places where the acts were committed, of culture and of cruelty. The ultimate goal of the Underground is to make one lose themselves in it, to consume them fully, and this space was not an exception. Thankfully, with the help of the trusty guidebook, we got to our destination, safe and sound. I felt the shiver run down my spine, caused by the rapid drop in temperature and deeply buried memories.
I pushed aside the final set of double doors and my special place revealed itself to us, still as majestic as ever. We were at the top level of a tall cylindrical space that at another time must have been a theater hall of sorts, with at least four levels of balconies. Red chairs faced the hole in the middle, where the scene would be. The stairs within the balcony were steep and even from the entrance you could see the perfectly circular meadow at the bottom, full of beautiful tall yellow flowers that I’ve never seen grow anywhere else. The earth they raised from was invisible behind a cover of blindingly white snow that spilled out on the viewing areas right next to it. The air was fresh but not freezing, like a first sunny morning of a new year. Through the round window in the dome above us, covered with thick and polished glass, gleamed countless foreign stars. Me and Poly tried many times to find a tall hill away from city lights to observe them, but quickly learned that some celestials cannot be seen in the world above. Here, deep below the surface, I’ve found so many buried places that gaze at the sky so reverently. It must mean something. It must mean something. It must.
Christine, in shock, covered her opened mouth with her hands:
“Oh my god. Is that…?”
“Yes. We stumbled upon it one day and decided it would make a great location for the final scene of a film, then worked backwards to make what you know as ‘Guts of the Snow Alley’.”
Christine made a few careful steps forward – and rushed to the edge of the balcony, screaming with joy.
“This is fantastic! I always thought it was filmed somewhere on campus. I… Seeing this in person is so… Magical. The word is magic. Sorcery. Witchcraft! You’re a witch! This is fantastic!”
I dropped on one of the seats beside her, trying to pay attention that in her excitement she didn't fall down to her death, and started to open our second wine bottle that I dragged with us all the way from the Lair.
“Let’s have a drink.”
With a luminous smile on a face so pained so recently, Christine did not mind.
“Can we go down there? To the flowers?”
“Well, perhaps another day. No truly straight lines in this place so it’s a bit of a journey. Especially when you have to carry all the film equipment! Don’t worry, as long as you’re with someone who knows the way, you can get here any time.”
“At least tell me, what do these flowers smell like? I've always wondered.”
A hint of pain creeped in my smile as I answered:
“They smell of nothing, but as a velvet to the touch.”
The wine poured and this time it got me to a blushing, stuttering state. Alcohol was never my strong suit, despite a sizable experience in the last few years. My tastes in drinks formed purely based on a company I associated them with. Bear was bitter and disagreeable. Vodka was fun, in the short burst, but very exhausting to maintain. Wine won the competition for a long time, but the one we had right now tasted more like vinegar.
“What’s your favourite drink?” I asked Christine and slushed the cup down into my throat, trying to ignore the growing distaste for it.
“I usually go for whiskey. Hits you hard enough.”
“Whiskey, huh.” This answer did not compute in my head. Thankfully, the drunkenness helped with that. “Whiskey is fine.”
“And yours?”
“It used to be wine but now, who knows. Maybe it will be whiskey too, if I give it a good try.”
While I slowly turned into jello, Christine seemed happy and positively glowing, although for much of it was the place we were in and how much the drink I cannot tell. 
“Christine, tell me, why did you decide to become an actress? Is there a special reason?”
She has an answer at the ready:
“Well, I am attractive and good at lying and if you get big you’re paid big bucks.”
We laughed.
“That can’t be it, right? What about art?”
She shrugged:
“I love art.”
If this was supposed to be an answer to my question, I did not get it. Then… My dignity would likely prevent me from saying something like that in normal circumstances, but, slowed by the spirits clogging my veins, the reasons not to say it arrived at an empty station, with the following train unstoppably heading in the direction of my mouth:
“You know, I don’t believe you and your fake pragmatism. But you’re speaking the truth about one thing: god damn it you are so unbelievably hot. Your… skin is so attractive.”
[There is a strange cadence in Venera’s recorded voice. The speaker pushes out an embarrassed rustling.]
In my defence, I’ve had enough wit to try and salvage it with this follow up:
“I mean, it would work well with any lightning: under these stars, in the candles of the Lair or that awful murky sunlight that we have. As a director, it’s truly spectacular.”
She gave me a look. I remember that. I do not remember what kind of look it was but she definitely had a reaction of some kind. Then, she produced following words:
“Thank you! It means a lot coming from a professional such as yourself. I don’t know much about lightning, to be honest, but I’ll remember to add that to my resume.”
Christine smiled at me and I was damning my mind, poisoned with wine, for failing to add an adjective to that smile. Warm? Polite? Curious? Perhaps, repulsed? Regardless, my drunk outburst seems to have amounted to nothing, which was both a relief and a disappointment. While I was stewing in poisoned confusion, she pivoted conversation away:
“It’s so crazy to be here. As preparation for this workshop of ours, I did re-watch ‘Guts of the Snow Alley’ just yesterday. These flowers down there are as majestic as you portrayed them. You captured their mournful yet captivating spirit so well. Still my favourite movie of all time. Absolutely unforgettable.”
Flattery will get her far, at least with me. Best feeling in the world, especially in an intoxicated state of bliss in which every compliment feels sincere. Then, there was a thread of recollection firing, signaling for attention, even if the rest of my brain was being drowned at that moment.
“Did you also watch it with that girl? Alina?”
Christine did not respond right away and when she did, there was a weariness in her voice that felt painfully familiar:
“Yeah. We had a bit of a fight afterwards. Not related to the movie. Well, not really.”
Looking back, I think she wanted me to console her – an opportunity I definitely should have taken. Sadly, the Drunk Venera had other priorities:
“Did she like the movie though? What did she think?”
Christine breathed out heavily, exasperated – something I’ve only noticed in the recording. Now, I believe that was a glimpse of the richness of her soul, one she hides deep in the sand like a cursed treasure. Her fawning sultry side was fun but there was more to Christine than that and it’s that more I must unveil. Any muse must have at least two motifs.
“Alina has seen like three real movies at this point, and two of them are yours. She’s like a freshly hatched chick. Of course she likes them.”
[This gloomy voice coming from the tape player must be Christine’s, but it cannot. Is this entire tape a lie? A narrative, constructed from Venera’s flight of fantasy and bits of unrelated phrases she stole out of the unsuspecting air?]
A little yellow chick, fresh, impressionable and pure. The image was adorable. I tried my luck again:
“This Alina sounds cute. I’ve already got Lisa… Oh, yes, Lisa Vont is going to be in ‘Surrounded’ too.” Christine’s face visibly dropped. I avoided mentioning Lisa until now but the wine got my guard down. Not like I could’ve hidden it for too long anyway.
“Why?”
“Well, you know. These films of ours don’t pay for themselves and I’d need to talk to the Cellar people to show it there, which means pulling on familiar strings.” I believe that I have enough weight at this point to go around these very real concerns, but the real reason is too embarrassing, “She’s going to be a person in the background or something like that, I’ve yet to figure that part out.”
Christine still seemed upset but I did not forget why I started to talk about it in the first place:
“You’re still my star on this one and that will not change. But if you want to be more confident, do you want to stack the deck a little? We need a writer and your Alina friend is a writer, right, you said so that one time. Ask her to join. Four girls on a mission to make art, or at the very least - entertainment. It’s going to be so fun.”
Christine did not seem happy about any of this:
“Well… I am coming over to Alina’s place tomorrow evening. She actually has started to write again and wants to show me her first chapter. I guess there is a positive side to that dumb exploit she pulled while you and I were filming. I’ll ask her then.”
“Please do!” I yelled with a cheer and the echo carried my excitement all over the theatre hall.
And then we drank some more and took pictures and I almost stumbled down to my death over a broken chair while dancing, if Christine didn’t grab my hand at the last moment, and then we made out with mad passion… Well, that last part is a wishful, made up fantasy, not memory, but we spent the time well. Despite all the health worries, there is a wind in my sails once more. I feel like I took control over the plot – literally. Still half drunk after coming back to my lonely abode, I dropped into The Writing Chair With Spikes I’ve had so much trouble with just days ago and banged out about four scenes in the opening sequence. And now I am here, sober and haunted by a splitting headache, but the raised spirit is still present in my bones. And tomorrow, oh, tomorrow I have some very exciting if slightly devious plans.


